
=== climat (3904 speeches since 1990)
  CUB 2013: ...r region's commitment to international peace and security. We commit to strengthening the climate of peace that prevails in Latin America and the Caribbean and to consolidating a zone of...
  GEO 2019: ...rgia, like all present here, faces the global challenges that confronting today's world — climate change, biodiversity loss, universal and accessible health, education for all, and overc...
  SEN 2013: ...lective ambitions into reality. In the quest for sustainable development, a conference on climate change in 2015 in Paris will provides us with another opportunity to pull ourselves toge...
  SSD 2014: ...rrorism, including piracy, which has become a menace to international peace and security. Climate change is now recognized as a major global threat — a threat that could wipe out planet ...
  KHM 2010: ...nnected and proliferating challenges, including the global economic and financial crisis, climate change, food security, international peace and security, regional conflicts and others. ...
  NGA 2021: ...had region, as well as by banditry in north-west and north-central Nigeria. The impact of climate change is already with us in Nigeria, as manifested in various ways: it has triggered co...
  OMN 1991: ...rnational problems, We have, therefore, to take advantage of the favourable international climate and should have no hesitation in benefiting from the opportunity to save the next genera...
  ISL 2024: ...ur term on the Council. Mr. President, Iceland strongly emphasizes global actions against climate change, both mitigation and adaptation. Climate change is not a distant threat; it is a ...
  PHL 1993: ...t dangerous of these barbarities. Despite - in certain cases, because of - the onset of a climate of peace, trafficking in the weapons of war sometimes continues unabated, dissipating re...
  GHA 2007: ...ng to the job. Yesterday there was a vibrant debate in this Hall on the critical issue of climate change, which is a main theme of this year's session. The phenomenon of consensus among ...
  COM 2016: ... in the unanimous tributes to his commitment to promoting peace, development and fighting climate change. The people and the Government of the Comoros are deeply grateful for the interes...
  FIN 2011: ..., make growth inclusive, and production and consumption more sustainable, while combating climate change and respecting the range of other planetary boundaries. We are fully convinced th...
  PAN 2012: ...same time, our economic growth allows us to allocate resources to confront the threats of climate change, which is affecting and will continue to affect large and small nations without r...
  ITA 2008: ...nergy and financial resources. Terrorism and nuclear proliferation threaten our security. Climate change has an impact on the future of our planet. Growing instability characterizes the ...
  CPV 2010: ...rs the negotiations underway with reference to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, there is a tendency towards pessimism rather than optimism. Scientists have for ...

=== global warming (631 speeches since 1990)
  BEL 2008: ... arisen in recent times, such as the food crisis, the 15 08-53122 spike in energy prices, global warming, terrorism and the danger of nuclear proliferation. In addition, our world is changing an...
  ERI 2022: ...sts, we are confronted these days with the equally perilous fallout of climate change and global warming, which exacerbates the already precarious situation. Furthermore, cyclical conflicts, whi...
  BGD 2007: ...of climate change. World leaders reaffirmed our shared commitment to address the issue of global warming. Bangladesh is particularly vulnerable to global warming, given that as much as 30 per ce...
  FJI 2016: ...st be merely the first step. We are alarmed by scientific predictions that the 2°C cap on global warming over pre-industrial levels agreed to in Paris is not enough to save us. Seven months ago,...
  FSM 2022: .... The Federated States of Micronesia cannot overemphasize the extreme urgency of limiting global warming to 1.5°C through rapid, deep and sustained reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions. Howeve...
  FSM 2011: ...orocarbons in order to prevent an additional increase of as much as one degree Celsius in global warming over the next decades. Reducing these shortlived agents is one of the surest ways to prot...
  AUT 2012: ...ople worldwide lacking access. Equally, it will help control greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, which threaten the very existence of many Member States. This year's United Nations Conf...
  THA 2021: ... well as enable them to swiftly adjust to changes, build immunity and better recover from global warming in a sustainable manner. Mr. Presidents, Distinguished delegates, Driving forward realiza...
  FJI 2018: ...ns ongoing climate negotiations among the nations of the world, but the struggle to fight global warming and end the degradation of our oceans will continue to be Fiji's highest priority. The ma...
  TUR 2019: ...e. At a time when 13 people lose their lives every minute owing to air pollution and when global warming threatens our very future, we cannot afford to remain indifferent. First and foremost, we...
  KOR 1998: ... and concrete actions by all countries. Last year, we made historic progress in combating global warming by adopting the Kyoto Protocol. I am pleased to say that my Government will accede to the...
  FJI 1993: ...ratifications, 50, will soon be achieved, so that the Convention can enter into force. As global warming and a rise in sea level are amongst the most serious threats to the Pacific region and to...
  URY 2013: ...and against desertification. We have to figure out how to recycle more and how to counter global warming. What are the limits of each human task? We must achieve a broad planetary consensus to u...
  PHL 2023: ...irit of our Organization calls on us to respond decisively to existential threats such as global warming, degrading ecosystems, diseases and food insecurity, and to reclaim the power of dialogue...
  MHL 2022: ...d attention to the dangers faced by our small nation owing to the looming threat posed by global warming. More than 30 years ago, in this great Hall and at the Rio Earth Summit, our leaders soun...

=== greenhouse (662 speeches since 1990)
  ALB 2019: ...at Albania has been working hard to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 45 per cent in the next decade and achieving net- zero emissions by 2050...
  ATG 2013: ...ld shoulder their moral, ethical and historical responsibility for emitting anthropogenic greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. It is those actions that have now put the planet in jeopardy a...
  GUY 2012: ... what is required in terms of both scale and urgency. The projected level of reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions is much too low. Scientists are warning us of the catastrophic consequences...
  FSM 2013: ...f our time. Our sustainable development is threatened by the harmful effects of excessive greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere, the effects of which poison our root crops, destroy our ...
  HTI 2024: ... poverty by 2030 due to climate impacts. Although Haiti contributes very little to global greenhouse gas emissions, it bears the brunt of these effects, exacerbating our struggle for food se...
  KOR 2011: ...ronmental warnings will be beyond imagination. The rise in the Earth's temperature due to greenhouse gas emissions has caused abnormal climatic phenomena. Ecosystem damage due to the greenho...
  BOL 2022: ...Climate Change, to achieve those targets. Furthermore, those that are mainly to blame for greenhouse gas emissions are now asking each country to chase the illusion of decarbonization by 205...
  ESP 2018: ...ommitment to implementing ambitious long- term strategies for reducing carbon dioxide and greenhouse-gas emissions. That will enable us to fully comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Ch...
  PNG 1997: ...pua New Guinea and other small island States in the South Pacific region is the impact of greenhouse gas emissions, which are causing rising sea levels and changing weather patterns in many ...
  LVA 2015: ...ill make adaptation extremely costly or even unfeasible. Latvia supports the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. It is also important to send a strong signal to investors and business of ...
  VUT 2011: ...ing of the peoples of the Pacific, particularly for small low-lying Pacific islands. High greenhouse gas emitting industrialized countries must start to embrace and to accept the common but ...
  COG 2009: ...least responsible for it suffer the most from its effects. Producing only 3.8 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions, our continent is the most affected by global warming. Poor populations are...
  DJI 2022: ...ent to the implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Although we are a low greenhouse-gas emitter, my country is committed to a large-scale environmental policy and the goal o...
  FRA 2015: ...ted Nations — have submitted their national contribution, which represents 80 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions — already a considerable figure. That means that half of the world has not ...
  MDV 2001: ... urge the international community to accelerate its efforts to agree on a legally binding greenhouse gas emissions reduction regime and to facilitate the Kyoto Protocol's early entry into fo...

=== carbon (749 speeches since 1990)
  TKM 2001: ...cisely this path. This point also touches on the question of exploiting the valuable hydrocarbon deposits of the Caspian Sea Basin, which involves not only regional interests but also th...
  MLT 2022: ...he 1.5°C target alive, ensure that no one is left behind, and continue working to build decarbonized nations and societies. As my country is about to proudly embark on a two-year term on...
  BLZ 2015: ...stainable Energy Initiative, which Belize proudly hosts — to foster our transition to low-carbon and climate-resilient economies. We also commit to pushing for a robust and ambitious reg...
  CHN 2016: ...able if it is expensive, if it is driven by high consumption with high pollution and high carbon emissions, or if it depletes resources and strains the environment. Development cannot be...
  GAB 2020: ...nergy. For us, this involves transitioning from a traditional polluting industry to a low-carbon, environmentally friendly industry. For Gabon, this is based on a foundation made up of t...
  PRT 2010: ...n summit is a step in the right direction. Portugal has consistently worked to reduce its carbon footprint by investing solidly in renewable energy. I am proud to be able to announce tha...
  AZE 2019: ...ith those international instruments. The Government has taken important steps to minimize carbon dioxide emissions and has pledged to reduce them by 35 per cent by 2030. It is well known...
  SLV 2007: ...nergy as alternatives to fossil fuels. Concerned by the instability of international hydrocarbon fuel prices, at the previous session of the General Assembly we proposed that the topic b...
  FSM 2010: ...d the Philippines that calls for the phasing down of the production and use of hydrofluorocarbons. Under our proposal we will be able to eliminate one of the greenhouse gases listed unde...
  MCO 2018: ...us and seeks to achieve the goal set by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 following a 50 per cent reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030. That in...
  SLE 2020: ... standards of living. We are constructing and resurfacing more roads, expanding access to carbon-neutral energy in off-grid and other locations, extending ICT penetration, and improving ...
  TUV 2024: ... fossil fuels. Therefore, phasing out fossil fuels is crucial to global efforts to reduce carbon emissions and curb global warming. Towards that objective, Tuvalu and several other likem...
  BFA 1990: ...h towards technologies that will reduce the emission of certain gases such as chlorofluorocarbons and carbon dioxide, responsible for the depletion of the ozone layer, the development of...
  ATG 2021: ...l architecture to accelerate the global transition into renewables, in order to achieve a carbon neutral world within the next two decades. Let me point out one serious anomaly. While de...
  MWI 2022: ...te change, we are committed to the global climate agenda. Malawi's own ambition is to cut carbon emissions by half before the year 2040, and we therefore call for support for our efforts...

=== emission (1038 speeches since 1990)
  NOR 2022: ... track, and that needs to change. Norway will honour its commitment to cut greenhouse-gas emissions and play a key role in the green transition. We have listened to the concerns of develop...
  MDV 2011: ...dress the challenges of disaster preparedness and response. Cutting global carbon dioxide emissions to a safer level — below 350 parts per million — is not just an environmental issue. It ...
  KGZ 2024: ...mainly by hydropower plants, which are the main driver towards achieving the goal of zero emissions. Our country has vast opportunities to integrate renewable energy sources into various s...
  PER 2024: ...ted responsibilities** in climate action. Developed countries must adopt **more ambitious emission reduction targets** and fulfil their **climate finance commitments**, including the mobil...
  ETH 2007: ...so appreciative of the European Union's (EU) commitment to further cut its greenhouse gas emissions and to introduce more responsible and sustainable energy policies. We endorse the EU's s...
  GRD 2023: ...e climate crisis. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has confirmed that global emissions are at their highest levels in human history and are only continuing to rise. Those incr...
  BGR 2019: ... will to attain lower and, over time, climate-neutral levels of industrial greenhouse-gas emissions. This, the master message of the Summit, must ring out loudly from this, the highest of ...
  BRA 2023: ...l inequalities. Rich countries grew, based on a model with high rates of climate-damaging emissions. The climate emergency makes it urgent to correct course and implement what has already ...
  MDV 2022: ...er small island developing States, we make only a miniscule contribution to global carbon emissions. We will be the first to bear the consequences, yet we are the ones with some of the mos...
  LUX 2014: ...eement in 2015 and to act as a catalyst for concrete action on the ground so as to reduce emissions and to increase resilience. In the second half of 2015, my country will assume the presi...
  NGA 2020: ...a has intensified climate action through the upward review of reduction in greenhouse gas emission under the Nationally Determined Contributions, which are climate change targets under the...
  VCT 2014: ...o well in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Despite a tiny carbon footprint and minuscule emissions, our country has nonetheless been repeatedly victimized by weather anomalies partially c...
  MOZ 2023: ...ith the selfishness of some countries. The countries that pollute most continue producing emissions that cause global warming and climate change. The enrichment of those countries comes at...
  CHE 2009: ...CO2 reduction targets for 2012. For the period until 2020, we are prepared to cut our CO2 emissions by 20 per cent. At the global level, the costs of adaptation to climate change will amou...
  ESP 2018: ...plementing ambitious long- term strategies for reducing carbon dioxide and greenhouse-gas emissions. That will enable us to fully comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. We urge...

=== paris agreement (758 speeches since 1990)
  ALB 2018: ...s and affecting lives, at a high cost to peoples, communities and countries. The historic Paris Agreement on Climate Change of 2015, which is based on the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Fra...
  PRT 2021: ...pted to forget, delay, stall and waste time. Twenty years after 9/11, six years after the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and a year and a half after the beginning of the pandemic, we need effe...
  PHL 2020: ... Philippines suffer the most. We cannot afford to suffer more. The Philippines joined the Paris Agreement to fight climate change. We call on all parties, especially those who have not made good ...
  TCD 2016: ... the preservation of the environment, which is seriously threatened. In this respect, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, signed on 22 April by all States, creates new obligations and a struct...
  IRQ 2021: ...ded to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as well as the 2015 Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and we are working on a strategy aimed at preserving the environment a...
  SMR 2023: ...nt to implement existing agreements, such as the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, the Convention on Biological Diversity and international law treaties,...
  MNG 2016: ... we are all following a new road map on our next 15-year journey. The 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement provide clear guidelines for achieving what we have promised to do. We must now act toget...
  KHM 2017: ...ressing this formidable challenge cooperatively and fairly. I am pleased to note that the Paris Agreement on Climate Change acknowledges the principle of common but differentiated responsibilitie...
  ESP 2019: ... come here we invoke the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That is why we signed the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with its 17 Sustainabl...
  JPN 2016: ...t Goals. The Government of Japan will accelerate the work towards early conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and will carry out without fail its pledge to provide ¥1.3 trillion in ...
  LVA 2016: ... political momentum for climate action. In April of this year, Latvia signed the historic Paris Agreement. We will strive to ratify the Agreement as soon as possible and encourage others to do th...
  BWA 2020: ...ternational partners, we are accelerating our implementation of our commitments under the Paris Agreement. Human Rights Mr. President, Botswana fully subscribes to the three mutually reinforcing ...
  KIR 2016: ...he legacy he will leave is enshrined in the new sustainable development Agenda and in the Paris Agreement, the catalyst for global attention and action on climate change. On behalf of the people ...
  BOL 2022: ...ntation, as promised in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, to achieve those targets. Furthermore, those that are mainly to blame ...
  SGP 2016: ...herein lies the importance of the United Nations. The recent successful conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change last November was a good example of how countries around the world coul...

=== kyoto (408 speeches since 1990)
  MDG 2004: ...agreement on energy development in Africa. The potential lies in reforestation and in the Kyoto process. Then, there is ecological potential. In addition to the energy and the climate, ...
  JAM 2010: ...s for negotiations towards a binding agreement for the second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. We are hopeful that the Cancún meeting in November and December will further ad...
  NIC 2009: ...her on the need for the developed countries to fulfil their historic obligation under the Kyoto Protocol and to end their attempts to repudiate the principle of common but differentiate...
  JPN 1997: ...Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto this December to decide on international measures to prevent global warming to be taken a...
  JPN 2019: ...nd Criminal Justice, commonly known as the United Nations Crime Congress, will convene in Kyoto. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime holds the meeting once every five years. Fi...
  GAB 2014: ... international community aimed at the adoption of a more binding agreement to succeed the Kyoto Protocol. That is the purpose of the meeting that we will organize in Libreville from 18 ...
  MLT 2008: ...which eventually led to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. The fact that the Assembly met earlier this year, after high-level panel discus...
  MDV 1998: ...lfil their commitments. Although we were happy with some of the agreements reached at the Kyoto Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change la...
  BHS 2005: ...t our environment and to send this message to Montreal, where, in November this year, the Kyoto Protocol can finally begin to take on a more substantial form. For countries such as the ...
  PLW 2000: ...t task are set forth in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. Let us fulfil our roles. During the Millennium Summit, we also presented instit...
  USA 1997: ...t come at tomorrow's expense. When the nations of the world gather again next December in Kyoto for the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate C...
  SMR 2007: ...ction and gas emissions, from the Vienna Convention and Montreal Protocol thereto, to the Kyoto Protocol, in the awareness that the consequences of climate change are a serious obstacle...
  NRU 2000: ...d too late for many small islands. We urge the community of nations to implement the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Nations and the private sector must incorporate "green accounting" into their p...
  MNE 2011: ...e principles defined in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. The Framework Convention represents a key multilateral forum for global action ...
  CHE 2004: ...sponsibilities towards future generations. Devoting more time to seeking agreement on the Kyoto Protocol than the founding fathers took to draft the Charter of the United Nations is ben...

=== sea level (350 speeches since 1990)
  MUS 2007: ...ins committed to the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities. The rise in sea level constitutes a danger that threatens most of the low-lying island developing States. Those...
  WSM 1993: ... island communities now live under the constant threat of ecological disasters. A rise in sea levels and destructive tropical cyclones are particular dangers. The evidence we have is that t...
  SGP 2021: ...re likely to see more intense rainfall, flooding and droughts, loss of sea ice and rising sea levels. The fight against climate change will be a stark litmus test of our ability to manage t...
  WSM 1991: ... have heard colleagues from low-lying island countries speak of the threat of the rise in sea level to their very existence. That is the reality of the situation at its grimmest. Even we in...
  PLW 2022: ...how them first-hand the challenges that we face as SIDS, whether it is plastic pollution, sea level rise or the impact on our fragile corals, which underpin our major economic driver of blu...
  FJI 2009: ...me of Fiji's closest neighbours live on the lowest-lying atolls in the world. The rise in sea level brought about by climate change threatens literally to drown them. Why should they be for...
  CRI 2023: ...health of the ocean and better governance. The ocean is being affected by global warming, sea level rise, an alarming increase in marine pollution, the overexploitation of fish stocks, decr...
  BGD 2011: ...y important for Bangladesh under the extra tension of climate change. A metre rise in the sea level due to global warming would inundate a fifth of our landmass, displacing over 30 million ...
  LCA 2013: ...erefore address, in a very real sense, the issues of concern to SIDS, such as the rise in sea level, non-communicable diseases, and the assessment of loss and damage caused by natural and m...
  FSM 2009: ... the people of Micronesia have lived on their small islands, many less than a metre above sea level. They have enjoyed a life dependent on the bounties of the sea and the harvest from the l...
  SLB 1998: ...es as tidal waves and volcanic eruptions, hurricanes, droughts and floods and rise of the sea level from climate warming. During the past year, shortages of water and food caused by El Niño...
  STP 2002: .... The people of Sao Tome and Principe live on two small islands in the Atlantic Ocean. If sea levels rise from global warming, my beautiful island home will disappear beneath the waves. We ...
  NER 2021: ... some regions of the world climate change has resulted in floods, forest fires and rising sea levels, in other regions, such as the Sahel region, it has resulted in extreme weather events, ...
  SOM 2019: ...he longest coastline in continental Africa, is already experiencing the effects of rising sea levels and a rising average temperature, which are exacerbated by the effects of degraded lands...
  MHL 1992: ...nuclear testing in our islands is also being applied to the possible dangers of a rise in sea level. In this regard, I am pleased to reiterate the call that President Amata Kabua of the Mar...

=== sea-level (208 speeches since 1990)
  SLB 2014: ...se cultures are under threat due to forced relocation from ancestral lands as a result of sea-level rise. Their right to live in harmony with nature is being threatened by the declining hea...
  BIH 2011: ...oncern of the most States Members of the United Nations at the fact that drought, floods, sea-level rise, lack of running water and food, deforestation and all the other phenomena caused by...
  MHL 2005: ...dramatic, but no less crucial global actions needed to mitigate climate change and arrest sea-level rise before it is too late to act and the people of the Marshall Islands and others becom...
  FSM 2019: ...owever, if our maritime zones and our right to them were challenged or reduced because of sea-level rise, to which we are among those who contribute the least. In that regard, we welcome th...
  FJI 2013: ...velopment. Not only are SIDS acutely vulnerable to the effects of climate change, such as sea-level rise, ocean acidification and the increased frequency of extreme weather events, but for ...
  FSM 2024: ...mergency due to an extended drought facing my nation. For us, every degree, every inch of sea-level rise, and every delay matters. We continue to call on our global community to step up wit...
  MHL 2019: ...degradation and climate change is a priority in the Pacific... due to the threat posed by sea-level rise and the region's vulnerability to natural disasters." I suggest that the significanc...
  DMA 2008: ... The fourth assessment report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change found that sea-level rise caused by global warming is likely to exacerbate storm surges and coastal erosion on...
  FSM 2013: ...ation of traditional knowledge of ancient conservation practices, which are threatened by sea-level rise, ocean acidification and other effects of excess global greenhouse gas emissions. Ad...
  ATG 1993: ... that while the contribution by small island States to climate change, global warming and sea-level rise is zero, the effects of climate change, global warming and sea-level rise will reduc...
  BGD 2023: ... call for stronger global solidarity in sharing the burden of climate migrants induced by sea-level rise, salinity increase, river erosion, floods and drought. The interlinked crises of the...
  BRB 2014: ...ore, yet again, the vulnerability of SIDS, particularly to the effects of climate change, sea-level rise, ocean acidification and extreme weather events. Together, they represent an existen...
  SLB 2015: ...ism, fisheries and the livelihood of 85 per cent of our population have been put at risk. Sea-level rise has already led to land inundation, the loss of biodiversity, threats to food securi...
  GRD 2022: ...ange and the stark reality that — in the face of increasingly strengthened hurricanes and sea-level rise — we may not have a country to pass on to future generations . The small island Stat...
  TTO 2006: ...rticular. The challenges to those countries posed by such phenomena as climate change and sea-level rise, as well as the effort and resources necessary to recover from adverse seasonal weat...

=== rising seas (40 speeches since 1990)
  FJI 2018: ...e of climate-related impacts, such as cyclones, flooding, prolonged droughts and steadily rising seas. I have met with farmers whose crops have been washed away, teachers and students who hav...
  SOM 2025: ...o global emission, yet we endure some of the harshest consequences. Droughts, floods, and rising seas erode livelihoods and displace families, threatening to undo the progress we are making t...
  SLB 2025: ...land developing states, this opinion brings hope and recognition. It affirms that even if rising seas inundate our islands, our statehood and maritime boundaries will endure, preserving our s...
  KIR 2013: ...continue to be diverted from equally pressing priorities to fighting the onslaught of the rising seas and storm surges and their impact on our water supplies, homes, livelihoods and public in...
  MHL 2025: ...cators. We worry our institutions will not easily withstand future threats, whether if by rising seas or geopolitical competition. Madam President, during our decades as a U.N. strategic trus...
  VCT 2018: ...d at the centre of global discourse in order to prompt appropriate collective action. The rising seas and intensifying storms pose an existential threat to small island developing States in p...
  USA 2021: ...r worsening droughts and floods, more intense fires and hurricanes, longer heat waves and rising seas? Will we affirm and uphold the human dignity and human rights under which nations in comm...
  COM 2025: ...re on the front line of climate change and we remain a vulnerable but determined country. Rising seas, coastal erosion and the increased frequency of cyclones are posing a threat to our villa...
  KIR 2012: ... to spend a disproportionate level of our limited resources fighting the onslaught of the rising seas and storm surges on our homes, livelihoods and public infrastructure. That is a costly ex...
  FJI 2021: ...rable. It is nature-based solutions. It is systematically relocating communities from the rising seas. Fiji is using every fiscal tool in our kit to do these things. And we are doing everythi...
  KNA 2024: ... too well the high cost of inac:on. We are small, yes, but our voices carry the weight of rising seas, thundering storms, and livelihoods teetering on the edge of erasure. A sustainable futur...
  JAM 2025: ...ll, where no country is too small to be heard, where the concerns of small islands facing rising seas are addressed, where the benefits of globalization are equitably shared, and where intern...
  FJI 2016: ... to address the challenges of climate change and deal with the extreme weather events and rising seas that pose such a threat to our way of life in the small island developing States and othe...
  ATG 2024: ... we continue to dither and delay. SIDS have learned to fight for our survival against the rising seas and violent storms. But today, we must also fight for something greater: the survival of ...
  BLZ 2025: ...oping state to climate risk, ranked second in the world for impacts from extreme weather. Rising seas are already displacing some coastal communities. Extreme heat strains our energy systems ...

=== renewable (692 speeches since 1990)
  TON 2020: ...owering the sustainable development for our Kingdom through the attainment of 50 per cent Renewable Energy penetration, the project delays caused by the global pandemic, through the sudden ...
  PNG 1996: ...ging practice designed to promote the sustainable use and in-country processing of a rich renewable natural resource. We are gravely concerned at the threat that climate change poses to the...
  TJK 2019: ...een energy, which is a crucial component of sustainable development. Expanding the use of renewable energy, principally hydroelectricity, contributes to Tajikistan's economic and social dev...
  MOZ 2019: ...y. These actions have been reinforced by the continued increase in the use of cleaner and renewable sources of energy — natural gas, wind, solar and hydroelectric — so as to provide energy ...
  MHL 2000: ...e been implemented without its support, through the United Nations Trust Fund for New and Renewable Sources of Energy. The interest in and support of the international community for the imp...
  SRB 2022: ...rastructure, but also in the faster and more efficient development of capacities based on renewables. It is precisely at the United Nations that we named the ongoing decade the decade of ac...
  PRT 2009: ... but also great opportunities. Fully conscious of this, Portugal is strongly committed to renewable energy sources: solar, wind, hydro, biomass and wave power. In 2010 we plan to produce 45...
  BGR 2024: ...porting projects in education, healthcare, public infrastructure and services, as well as renewable energy solutions. We face a growing number of places around the globe where worrying dyna...
  BOL 2018: ...trition by 50 per cent. Bolivia invests more money than any other country in the world in renewable energies in relation to gross domestic product. We are building a more just society. We a...
  TLS 2025: ...licies. With the current government, we are also initiating the energy transition towards renewable energy production and establishing a consolidated policy on the blue economy. Having rati...
  EGY 2022: ...nancing and ensure $100 billion annually, as well as working towards a just transition to renewable energy. The international community's ability to move forward on implementing the goals o...
  AFG 2020: ... other corporations to turn 70,000 megawatts of wind, and 220,000 megawatts of solar into renewable energy, thereby become a hub for renewable energy and green industry in the region. The f...
  FSM 2008: ... Micronesia's resolve to call for the acceleration of the development of technologies for renewable and affordable sources of energy. Micronesia recognizes that special assistance from the ...
  TUV 2016: ... and by 2020 we shall have reached our target of 100 per cent electricity generation from renewable sources. Tuvalu has also established a Tuvalu Climate Change Survival Fund, using its own...
  ISL 2014: ...icity. As energy production grows, it is essential to substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy supply by 2030. Iceland is contributing to that effort. We ha...

=== net zero (45 speeches since 1990)
  JPN 2023: ...Thirdly. Japan will work to mitigate the potential impact on people that may arise before net zero is achieved. Asian countries are the key to globally achieving net zero. Under the Asia Z...
  WSM 2021: ...C shows that global greenhouse gas emissions must be halved in the next decade, and reach net zero emissions by mid-century, if the promise of 1.5°C is to remain within reach. Efforts to d...
  SGP 2022: ...ate Pact is absolutely critical. We also need to step up cooperation in the transition to net zero. That will, in fact, be the biggest socioeconomic transformation since the industrial rev...
  GUY 2023: ...se commitments to be fully delivered on? Although Guyana's emission levels are already at net zero, we continue to pursue growth premised on a low-carbon development strategy. Our goal is ...
  BRA 2021: ...ved up the target date, from 2060 to 2050, for attaining the goal of climate neutrality — net zero. Human and financial resources aimed at bolstering environmental agencies were doubled, w...
  GUY 2022: ...able management of our forests as a key national and global good. Having already achieved net zero in emissions, we are working steadfastly in our transition from a 2020 status of 95 per c...
  MDV 2023: ... Domestically, we will continue to display strong and ambitious climate action. We have a net zero target of 2030. We are conserving and protecting parts of our ocean, marine species and c...
  JPN 2024: ...ut a "New Form of Capitalism." We are steadily taking actions and are on track to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. It is important that all countries come together to achieve the common...
  NLD 2021: ... be held in November, succeed. Together we must find a way to reduce harmful emissions to net zero by 2050, and we must ensure that the goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C degrees rem...
  BRN 2022: ...To that end, Brunei Darussalam is committed to the climate ambition and is moving towards net zero by 2050, through forest preservation and transition to clean energy, to shape a low carbo...
  GMB 2025: ...al determination contributions by all states due to their submission this year to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. Madam President, As I conclude, allow me to call on Member States to u...
  AUS 2021: ...et it and we will beat it — and we'll beat it strongly. And we are committed to achieving net zero emissions. My Government, the Australian Government, will release our Long Term Emissions...
  BLZ 2020: ... new climate plans with strengthened targets for climate action and a strategy to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. But we are yet to see the level of ambition needed to bend the emissio...
  AUS 2025: ...resources, critical minerals, skills, and sunlight and space to power the global shift to net zero, Australia is acting to meet the environmental challenge of climate change, while working...
  KAZ 2022: ...have pledged the total transformation of the oil- and coal-dependent energy sector into a net zero economy by 2060. To save our planet, we need investment at greater levels than we have ev...

=== net-zero (44 speeches since 1990)
  JPN 2024: ...s by 2050. It is important that all countries come together to achieve the common goal of net-zero through various pathways that are compatible with economic growth and energy security. As...
  NAM 2023: ...se Namibian-produced green hydrogen to deliver the first industrial production of iron at net-zero emissions. During the first phase of the project in 2024. an annual output of 15.000 tons...
  THA 2022: ...d Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero greenhouse-gas emissions by 2065. And with adequate support, Thailand will be able to inc...
  TTO 2023: ....5°C temperature threshold. However, recent developments have shown that overly ambitious net-zero targets should not be forced on small island nations. We are called on to be game-changer...
  BGR 2019: ...that will contribute to the common goal of keeping temperature rise to 1.5°C and reaching net-zero global emissions by 2050. Bulgaria has already reached the interim target of an 18 per ce...
  GBR 2021: ...estrain that rise to 1°5 C, we need to pledge collectively to achieve carbon neutrality — net-zero — by the middle of the century, and that will be an amazing moment if we can do it, becau...
  LAO 2022: ...tion plans with regard to tackling and mitigating climate change with a view to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. To that end, there is pressing need for adequate financial resources a...
  BHR 2023: ...r international initiatives in the field of climate change. We are committed to achieving net-zero carbon neutrality by 2060; reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 2035; doubling the number...
  JAM 2025: ...eadership in climate action despite our limited resources. We have committed to achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 and have implemented our National Adaptation Plan with specific measure...
  NPL 2022: ... to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, we have set the ambitious target of reaching a net-zero scenario by 2045, as announced by the Prime Minister of Nepal, The Right Honourable Mr. S...
  NGA 2022: ...ansnational organized crime. Last year, as part of Nigeria's effort to achieve our global net-zero aspirations, my Administration adopted a national climate-change strategy that aims to de...
  GUY 2022: .... Also, analysis by the International Energy Agency indicates that getting on the path to net-zero emissions by 2050 would require a threefold increase in the current level of investments ...
  FJI 2022: ...ticularly for adaptation. We are therefore left with little to no choice. We legislated a net-zero commitment by 2050 through the Climate Change Act 2021, which will make us more energy se...
  KHM 2024: ...dia also fully supports the Secretary-General's call for bold climate actions. To achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, as it has pledged it would do, Cambodia has launched many measures, in...
  FJI 2021: ...g within our means to reduce our emissions. We have submitted an NDC that commits Fiji to net-zero emissions and harnesses nature to lead that transition — commitments that will soon becom...

=== fossil fuel (218 speeches since 1990)
  BRA 2024: ... the slow pace of global decarbonisation and to work towards an economy less dependent on fossil fuels. **Mr President,** Latin America has been living through a second "lost decade" since 20...
  NLD 2022: ...the most basic human needs of so many people, provide yet another argument for ending the fossil fuel era even faster than we had planned. They make tackling that other major global issue — c...
  IDN 2008: ...els will lead to a severe reduction of the food supply. It is true that by switching from fossil fuels to biofuels, we can cushion the impact of the skyrocketing of the world price of oil and...
  GUY 2022: ...d's population did not have access to electricity. The volume of electricity generated by fossil fuels increased by 178 per cent between 2000 and 2021 — in particular, the volume of electrici...
  COD 2023: ...r products; and the establishment of a carbon tax regime, including a tax on the trade in fossil fuels and on maritime and air transport. They also reminded rich polluters of the commitment t...
  MHL 2008: ...case may be found in the current energy crisis arising from the escalation in the cost of fossil fuel. Its adverse impact has been immediate and severe. The transportation of essential goods ...
  GTM 2005: ...dvances made are increasingly being compromised by an inordinate increase in the price of fossil fuels, which has an extremely negative effect on countries whose open economies, like that of ...
  KNA 2009: ... of disaster preparedness, reduction and mitigation. We recognize that high dependence on fossil fuels is untenable. Therefore, with support from the Organization of American States and priva...
  ESP 2010: ...greater effort is required to limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions and dependency on fossil fuels, and to commit to renewable energy and efficient and responsible consumption. The United...
  DMA 2007: ... are working towards a new energy regime that will significantly reduce our dependence on fossil fuels for our energy needs and slow the haemorrhaging of scarce foreign exchange earnings to m...
  COL 2025: ...n wind, water. The United States has a huge demand for energy, and 70% of it is filled by fossil fuels, in other words, based on carbon, coal, gas. Latin America is developing its clean energ...
  USA 2023: ...e snapshots tell an urgent story of what awaits us if we fail to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and do not begin to climate-proof the world. From day one. my United States Administrati...
  THA 2007: ...inable utilization of natural resources. Thailand aims at cutting back on its reliance on fossil fuels and at lowering greenhouse gas emissions through energy conservation. At the same time, ...
  TUV 2024: ...ratures continue to rise due to the increasing emissions of greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels. Therefore, phasing out fossil fuels is crucial to global efforts to reduce carbon emiss...
  TZA 1996: ...omic development. Another heavy burden for developing countries, especially those without fossil fuel sources of energy, is the cost input of energy for development. In this connection, I wis...

=== unfccc (58 speeches since 1990)
  PNG 2020: ...t. Mr President, Under SDG 13, PNG continues to comply with the Paris Agreement under the UNFCCC and presented our National Determined Contributions (NDC) report to the United Nations wh...
  DNK 2007: ...k. Secondly, I would note that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) remains the only legitimate framework for truly global negotiations on climate change. I...
  ATG 2008: ...tments from Annex 1 Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on greenhouse gas-reduction for the second commitment period, as well as their commitmen...
  SLB 2016: ... obligations to implement the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). I am pleased to announce that Solomon Islands has ratified the Agreement and submitted ...
  TTO 2007: ...onditions. As a State party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Kyoto Protocol, we call on all States parties to UNFCCC, particularly major emit...
  PNG 2015: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Paris and hopes that a new comprehensive and legally binding climate agreement will b...
  KOR 2009: ...ile not included in annex I of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), plans to make a voluntary announcement before the end of this year stating its midterm ...
  PNG 2024: ...progress our commitments under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement by undertaking adaptation and mitigation efforts. However, acces...
  SLB 2012: ...iation Organization (ICAO) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Although not a member of ICAO, Taiwan manages more than 1 million f lights and 40 milli...
  MHL 2015: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) later this year, in Paris, I am proud that climate change is now recognized by all world...
  MNE 2009: ...nse based on the principles of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), which would facilitate sustainable economic development of society in accordance with t...
  PHL 2024: ... region. We consistently call on developed nations to fulfill their commitments under the UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement. We are convinced that legal clarity on the duties and responsibi...
  TON 2020: ...nced NDCs will be submitted to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Secretariat this year. Though the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26)...
  SLB 2010: ...reaty organizations this year: the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the International Civil Aviation Organization. My country supports such participatio...
  MHL 2020: ...te in an equal and dignified manner within the UN system, including the WHO, ICAO and the UNFCCC, as well as activities related to the SDGs. The vital civic space of UN premises should b...

=== cop21 (10 speeches since 1990)
  VCT 2015: ...agreement at the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention (COP21) in Paris, but the precariousness of our global plight is not matched by the ambition of ...
  DMA 2015: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) later this year, we trust that all States parties are heeding the warnings of the scient...
  NIC 2016: ...at the twenty-first session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris failed to establish a firm starting point to address the greatest challenge fac...
  FSM 2014: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21), to be held in Paris, will establish a new climate change treaty, which will go into eff...
  NRU 2015: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21) in Paris. Many have already come forward with meaningful mitigation contributions that w...
  KEN 2015: ...ons Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in November and December. COP21 is a crucial conference, during which global leaders will need the political will to reac...
  KHM 2020: ...s mind-boggling to note that not many countries have done enough to meet their respective COP21 commitments. Cambodia is a small country with limited resources, but we strive to address...
  DJI 2021: ...ment, we must acknowledge that the efforts made have not lived up to the hopes, following COP21. Because of their climate vulnerability, the international community must support develop...
  FRA 2022: ...Costa Rica, France will host the 2025 United Nations Ocean Conference. Let us make it the COP21 for oceans. With regard to health, we must learn from the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) ...
  MLT 2015: ...t Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). Climate action will be prominently featured on the summit agenda. Noting that the Commo...

=== cop 21 (3 speeches since 1990)
  GAB 2016: ... embargo. I would also mention the twenty-first session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 21) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Paris. The entire world...
  GUY 2021: ...t Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 21) in Paris have not been delivered. If emissions follow the trajectory set by current nati...
  FSM 2014: ...ontreal Protocol in the next six months is our ticket to a successful outcome in Paris at COP 21. I commend the United States of America and China for continuing to work to fulfil their ...

=== cop26 (53 speeches since 1990)
  ATG 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP26) in Glasgow by the Prime Minister of Tuvalu. Kausea Natano. and myself. Frustrated by the...
  SLB 2021: ...orld', which we can all agree is not world we wish to bequeath to our future generations. COP26 in Glasgow to be held in November this year, presents an opportunity for the world to ope...
  ITA 2021: ...w to protect the planet, our economy and future generations. As Presidency of the G20 and COP26 co-chair together with the United Kingdom, Italy intends to reach ambitious goals on the ...
  ROU 2020: ...the risks of climate change. We all have a duty to the future generations to turn Glasgow COP26 into a success and to achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. The EU Green Deal is a to...
  ITA 2020: ... tomorrow, begins today. For this reason, we will be organizing — in the framework of the CoP26 — next year's "Youth4 Climate" in Italy. We wish to give a voice to youths and their prop...
  MDG 2024: ...e generations. On this point, President Andry RAJOELINA reaffirmed during his speech at **COP26 in Glasgow (September 2022)** the urgency of mobilising the **USD 100 billion** promised ...
  SWE 2021: ...rtunity to build back greener. This year, we need to stand up to the test as we gather at COP26 in Glasgow, COP 15 in Kunming, and prepare to conclude a legal instrument to protect biod...
  BTN 2021: ...spoke on behalf of the 46 LDCs and we are already excited for concrete results out of the COP26 in the coming month. I would like to inform the august gathering that this year marks the...
  PLW 2020: ...of the past decade: that goals must be supported by adequate resources. While the climate COP26 may also have been delayed by the pandemic, this cannot delay increased climate ambition,...
  ZWE 2021: ...nd colder winters. This is in spite of the fact that our Continent is the least polluter. COP26 in Glasgow must therefore be about action and the fulfilment of decisions of the past. In...
  TUV 2021: ...ossil fuel subsidies including the phase out of coal. Mr. President, As we move closer to COP26, we make the same call on developed countries and major economies to demonstrate leadersh...
  ATG 2024: ...Island Developing States, has played a leading role in the pursuit of climate justice. At COP26 in 2021, together with Tuvalu, we established the Commission of Small Island States on Cl...
  NER 2021: ... technology transfers to developing countries. It is the Niger's hope that the high-level COP26 meeting in Glasgow will serve as a platform to reaffirm political will to fight against t...
  KHM 2020: ...tation of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) ahead of the COP26 meeting in Glasgow. Non-State Terrorism and Peacekeeping Operations Excellency President!...
  FRA 2021: ...s to global heating of 2.7°C for which we will all, without exception, pay a heavy price. COP26 which will begin on 1 November will therefore be a moment of truth. Each of us must shoul...

=== cop 26 (14 speeches since 1990)
  DMA 2021: ...response and recovery mechanisms. Dominica looks forward to the renewal of discussions at COP 26 in a few weeks times, where commitments made under the Paris agreement can be re visited ...
  IRL 2021: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26). But we can see the adverse effects of climate change already exacerbating conflict and ...
  COG 2022: ...plan for that commitment. Together with the Government of the United Kingdom, the host of COP 26, my country's Government plans to launch, over the next few weeks, a political forum enti...
  GBR 2021: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26) — the summit soon to take place at Glasgow — is the turning point for humankind. We must...
  VAT 2021: ...is, Fratelli Tutti, 228 Responding to the Needs of the Planet Mr. President, The upcoming COP 2610 in Glasgow is an important opportunity for resilience, as the international community h...
  SVN 2021: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), Slovenia is committed to the objective of a climate-neutral European Union by 2050. We ...
  NAM 2023: ...in order to combat climate change. One year later in Glasgow. Scotland, on the margins of COP 26. we announced the development of large-scale green hydrogen projects that would provide t...
  TTO 2021: ... updating our NDC with a view to further increasing our mitigation ambition. We hope that COP 26 will agree to complete the outstanding issues and to fully operationalise the Paris Agree...
  NER 2021: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), which will be held in Glasgow in November, should meet that requirement, in particular ...
  GUY 2021: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), to be held in Glasgow in a few weeks' time, is the right and timely place to start. The...
  IND 2022: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26) in Glasgow, is our homage to Mother Nature. India remains deeply committed to fighting c...
  TON 2020: ...(UNFCCC) Secretariat this year. Though the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 26) to the UNFCCC that was to be held in Glasgow, United Kingdom, has been postponed to 2021...
  SUR 2021: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), in early November this year, in Glasgow, we must bear in mind that noble ideals with st...
  DNK 2022: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), and this week we have followed up with several new initiatives for those hardest hit an...

=== cop27 (18 speeches since 1990)
  HRV 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) of a loss and damage fund to help vulnerable countries cope with the destructive effects...
  BWA 2022: ...te change but is, regrettably, the most affected. In that context, we are optimistic that COP27, to be held in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, on African soil, will further inspire ambitious cl...
  SVK 2022: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Egypt. But our actions lag dangerously behind our words. Our greenhouse gas emissions...
  DJI 2022: ...at we have not done enough. We therefore welcome the fact that the Egyptian presidency of COP27, at a pivotal juncture, has made the theme of the upcoming Conference the effective imple...
  EGY 2024: ...elopment** or the fight against poverty. This was at the heart of our priorities during **COP27 in Sharm El-Sheikh**, and remains our guiding compass as we work toward effective and pra...
  FJI 2024: ...ive quantified goal (NCQG) and address glaring gaps in climate finance. The momentum from COP27 and COP28 on the Loss and Damage Fund, and the Santiago Network must be accelerated in or...
  EGY 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27) in Sharm el-Sheikh. in mobilizing international consensus to achieve climate justice. We...
  BTN 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27). we are hopeful that progress will be made and that it will be operationalized by COP28....
  OMN 2022: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27), which will be held in Sharm el- Sheikh, Egypt, in November. We wish the sisterly Arab R...
  THA 2022: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27), to be held in Sharm El-Sheikh. Meanwhile, the pledges of developed countries must also ...
  JAM 2023: ...ork Convention on Climate Change (COP28). we recall the breakthrough agreement secured at COP27 to establish a Loss and Damage Fund. The work of the Transitional Committee will be vital...
  PER 2024: ...* for developing countries and implementation of the **loss and damage fund** agreed at **COP27**. It is also urgent to ensure funding for the **Green Climate Fund (GCF)**, which has su...
  TGO 2023: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27). in particular the establishment of a specific fund to finance loss and damage to vulner...
  LBN 2023: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP27). held in Sharm El-Sheikh, the Arab Republic of Egypt, and looks forward to the same leve...
  ATG 2023: ...terally begging — not that we should be begging. We must recall that all that happened at COP27 last year is that the world's greatest polluters agreed, only at the last minute, that su...

=== cop 27 (11 speeches since 1990)
  SLB 2022: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) to set more ambitious nationally determined contributions that would put our world on th...
  NGA 2024: ...goal. Worthy of note is the 'loss and damage funding for vulnerable countries' secured at COP 27 in Egypt and expanded in COP 28 in the United Arab Emirates. It is our expectation that t...
  NZL 2023: ...half of our quadrupled $1.3 billion climate-finance commitment will go to the Pacific. At COP 27. we stood with the Pacific on the priority issue of loss and damage. New Zealand supports...
  EGY 2022: ...onference of States Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27), appeals sincerely to all members of the international community to translate our pledge...
  NGA 2022: ...ur expectation that the seventy- seventh session of the General Assembly and the upcoming COP 27 will help galvanize the political will required to drive action towards fulfilling the va...
  CIV 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27). held in Egypt. Cote d'Ivoire welcomes the success of the African Climate Summit, held i...
  COD 2023: ...rming of our planet is far from being limited to the target of 1.5°C. On the contrary, at COP 27. held in Sharm El- Sheikh. Egypt, this year, concerns were expressed about the trend of r...
  TON 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) was a historic one. Yet it is now with a sense of urgency that we must operationalize th...
  FSM 2022: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27) on a loss and damage response fund, the establishment of that fund at COP 27 and the ful...
  ZAF 2022: ...venth Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 27), in Egypt, with an agreement that contains enhanced and balanced actions on adaptation, ...
  DNK 2022: ...several new initiatives for those hardest hit and the world's poorest. As we look towards COP 27, Denmark will also be among the founding members of the Systems Observations Financing Fa...

=== cop28 (26 speeches since 1990)
  MDV 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28). we must all raise climate ambition to secure our future, for the future. As we approach...
  LCA 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28). in Dubai. We will be doing so with the current extreme and extraordinary weather events...
  ARE 2025: ...ountry affirms its full commitment to implementing the outcomes of the UAE consensus from COP28 held in Dubai in 2023. My country is also investing heavily in addressing the challenges ...
  DNK 2023: ...e Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28). The international financial architecture must be revisited. Who decides? Who benefits? ...
  ATG 2023: ...on on Climate Change in Dubai will be crucial for the future of the planet. Not only does COP28 come at a time when the world is witnessing climate chaos, but the summit is particularly...
  PLW 2024: ...nomy is reflected in the Unlocking Blue Pacific Prosperity (UBPP) initiative, launched at COP28. The UBPP unites Pacific Island nations in addressing the dual challenges of climate chan...
  LBN 2023: ...rab Republic of Egypt, and looks forward to the same level of active participation in the COP28 climate conference, to be held in Dubai. We wish that brotherly host country and the conf...
  MRT 2024: ... Effects of Drought in the Sahel Region. In this regard, I highly commend the outcomes of COP28, held in the United Arab Emirates at the end of last year, and I hope these environmental...
  BTN 2023: ...(COP27). we are hopeful that progress will be made and that it will be operationalized by COP28. In addition, we need to mobilize new and additional climate financing, while ensuring ba...
  BHS 2024: ...ecedented $2.4 trillion last year, the Loss and Damage Fund, painstakingly established at COP28, has secured a mere $800 million in pledges. This is a drop in the ocean, compared to the...
  NOR 2025: ...e. Yet over the past decade, the world has achieved significant progress in this area. At COP28 in Dubai, nations united around the goal of phasing out fossil fuels in a just, orderly, ...
  SMR 2024: ...e of urgency and priority in tackling this challenge. We support the commitments taken at COP28 last December, which include the imperative of transitioning away from fossil fuels in en...
  FSM 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28). to major reductions of emissions of at least half by 2030. with the peaking of emission...
  GUY 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) will not achieve the desired objectives of definitively putting our planet on a net-zero...
  JAM 2025: ...ise of $100 billion annually remains unfulfilled. The Loss and Damage Fund established at COP28 was historic, yet its initial capitalization of $800 million is grossly inadequate. Devel...

=== cop 28 (9 speeches since 1990)
  TLS 2024: ... conditional aid, financial assistance, and debt. The "loss and damage" fund, approved at COP 28 in Dubai, must secure more significant contributions from wealthy and developed countries...
  KEN 2024: ...international tax cooperation, technology transfer, and capacity building. This is why at COP 28, we launched the Africa Green Industrialisation Initiative, aimed at unlocking investment...
  FSM 2022: ...ent of that fund at COP 27 and the full operationalization of the fund to be completed at COP 28. The Federated States of Micronesia cannot overemphasize the extreme urgency of limiting ...
  TON 2023: ...h Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 28). to be held in Dubai. I should like to add that we hope to welcome everyone to our regio...
  DEU 2024: ...stence. When with more than 190 states, we agreed to signal the end of the fossil era, at COP 28. And when we set up the Loss and Damage Fund for the most vulnerable. And we saw again wh...
  PNG 2023: ...erial meeting held on loss and damage, and we look forward to further engaging on that at COP 28. Let me reiterate that Papua New Guinea's position, like that of many of our fellow Pacif...
  NGA 2024: ...s and damage funding for vulnerable countries' secured at COP 27 in Egypt and expanded in COP 28 in the United Arab Emirates. It is our expectation that this year's 79th Session of the U...
  MUS 2024: ...t scientific insights and informed by the outcomes of the Global Stocktake agreed upon at COP 28, including its roadmap for keeping 1.5°C within reach. This target is a lifeline for all ...
  CIV 2023: ...2023. and the outstanding work of the continent to ensure that its voice will be heard at COP 28. to be held in Dubai. I take this opportunity to call on the international community to s...
